---
title: Salvation in Systems
layout: post
categories: life productivity
tags: productivity life
---
Something I found particularly profound this week was Dan Koe's idea of systemization. The point he makes in [the video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aV4jKPFOjvk)  is that composing our lives of systems allows us to become more efficient and hence more powerful as we can get more done in the same unit time. This week I will work to identify areas of my life that stand to benefit from systemization and to build systems for those areas. One such example for me is note taking. I realize its benefits and have been doing it more regularly, but I have no consistent structure around taking notes. This forces my mind to work to make sense of where the note should go, how much detail it needs, what it should reference, etc. Systems combat the entropy inherit in our universe. Once the overhead of implementing a system has been paid, the energy required to maintain the system will be significantly less than the energy required to perform the action without the system in place. Another example I think illustrates this well is keeping one's clothes in order vs having a messy room. Dredging through a swamp of clothes in order to find your favorite pants will no doubt take considerably more energy and *time* than simply retrieving them from their designated place of storage. This difference in energy is *greater* than the amount of energy required to maintain the system of organized clothes. The difficulty is the overhead required to implement the system in the first place, in this case: cleaning your room. Because we are bias towards short-term outcomes, there is a sort of inertia we must overcome before any benefit can be had. 
